# OPTIBUG(BUG-PRIORITIZATION)
Bug fixing is a crucial daily activity in software development and maintenance that significantly impacts 
Software Quality Assurance (SQA). Bug tracking systems, such as Bugzilla, are frequently utilized to 
monitor and handle software bugs. Bug triaging is a crucial step in the defect assignment process of bug 
tracking systems, aiming to allocate bug reports to the most suitable developers. Ideally, a confirmed bug 
should be efficiently assigned to a suitable developer who can quickly fix it. However, bug reports are 
often inaccurately assigned to developers, leading to delays in bug resolution in opensource software 
projects, even with efforts to ensure accurate assignments. Bugs may be reassigned multiple times until 
eventually fixed by a developer, which can take a significant amount of time, as shown by a study in the 
Eclipse project. Therefore, precise developer recommendations for bug reports can improve the bug 
triaging process's efficiency and software maintenance. Researchers have proposed various automated 
methods in recent years to enhance the bug triaging process's precision and productivity while reducing 
human labor costs. 
Here, we are developing a bug prioritization system so that an efficient programmer is assigned to the bug 
according to its severity. It helps software developers identify and prioritize bugs based on their potential 
impact and severity. One approach to developing such a system is to use meta-heuristic feature selection 
algorithms for optimization. These algorithms are designed to automatically identify the most important 
features of a dataset. Meta-heuristic algorithms, such as Ant Colony Optimization (ACO), Particle Swarm 
Optimization (PSO), and Genetic Algorithms (GA), are used to identify the most relevant features of a 
dataset by exploring a large search space and identifying the optimal solution. These algorithms are 
designed to be efficient, effective, and scalable, making them a powerful tool for building a bug 
prioritization system. By using meta-heuristic feature selection algorithms for optimization, a programmer 
recommendation system for bug triage can provide accurate and reliable recommendations to software 
developers, helping them to prioritize and address bugs more efficiently. This can lead to improved 
software quality, increased productivity, and reduced costs associated with software maintenance. Overall, 
a bug prioritization system using meta-heuristic feature selection algorithms is a promising approach to 
improving software development practices, and has the potential to become an essential tool for software 
development teams.
